# LetterClassificationNueralNet

This is a python project that can collect thousands of lowercase letter image data by using Selenium to web-scrape calligrapher.ai (found in collectData.py and compressed collected data of more than 15,000 images found in Images.zip and ImagesTest.zip), then uses Pillow and numpy to normalize all the data to have a given minimum margin space and standard image dimensions (150 x 150) (found in normalizeData.py), then uses this data to train and test a classification convolutional neural network made with Tensorflow and Keras (trains model in letterModel.py and the compressed model file this creates is found in letterModel.model.zip), and then finally uses Pygame to create a user-interface panel which the user can draw a letter on and press any key for the model to attempt to predict what the letter they drew was (found in drawLetter.py). The model achieved a test accuracy of over 93% on it's last epoch of training and is able to guess user drawings of reasonable size and legebility with good accuracy. 


## How To Run ##

Download all files in the project, then unzip Images.zip ImagesTest.zip and letterModel.model.zip. Ensure that the resulting folders have the same name but just without the .zip. 
You can now run the drawLetter.py file to draw a letter onto a Pygame grid and press any key to let the model guess on the console output what letter you just attempted to draw. 
If you wish to train a new model, run letterModel.py after making the desired changes to the model structure in that file and it will overwrite the existing letterModel.model folder or create one if it doesn't yet exist. 
If you wish to collect new data, delete all of the subfolders within Images and ImagesText then run collectData.py and let the automated browser sit idle on your screen (screen must be on and the browser must be in view on your screen) until it finishes running, then run the normalizeData.py file to normalize the image data to all have dimensions of (150 x 150) and have a minimum whitespace margin within the image around the letter from the pre-normalized image. Once you produce this new data and normalize it, you should train the model again on the new data by running letterModel.py, then you can again test the new model by running drawLetter.py and drawing letters for the model to predict. 
